h1. Redmine Wiki Publisher

{{>TOC}}

h2. DESCRIPTION

Redmine Wiki Publisher is a Maven 2 plugin that aims to assist on documentation publishing
in the Redmine wiki of a particular project. Your development had as motivation:

* Eliminate the need for a specific site for documentation and reports as is done in the current site plugin of the maven. Thus, the documentation stays centralized with the project management on Redmine.

* Support that Wiki macros provide in the integration of project documentation artifacts with tasks, svn repository and other features of Redmine.

This plugin had as reference and base, the Maven Redmine plugin, developed by Julien Eluard.

"Fastconnect Maven Site":http://opensource.fastconnect.org/projects/maven-redmine-plugin/1.1/
"Fastconnect Redmine":https://opensource.fastconnect.org/redmine/projects/maven-redmine-plugin

h2. DEVELOPMENT TEAM

Redmine Wiki Publisher was developed by a team from DIDE - Divisão de Desenvolvimento
do "Núcleo de Tecnologia da Informação - UFMS":http://nti.ufms.br

* Daniel Camargo - daniel.camargo@ufms.br - danielsudpr@gmail.com
* Heverson Vasconcelos - heverson.vasconcelos@ufms.br - heverson.vasconcelos@gmail.com
* Vinícius Souza - vinicius.souza@ufms.br - viniciuspodi@gmail.com

h2. CONFIGURATIONS

h3. pom.xml

Most parameters used in the plugin is configured from the pom.xml file.
Example:
<pre><code class="xml">
<project>
	...
	<build>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>br.ufms.nti</groupId>
				<artifactId>redmine-wiki-publisher</artifactId>
				<configuration>
					<projectIdentifier>${project.artifactId}</projectIdentifier>
					<redmineDatabase>redmine-postgresql</redmineDatabase>
					<redmineDatabaseUrl>jdbc:postgresql://debianvm:5432/redmine</redmineDatabaseUrl>
					<redmineDatabaseDriver>org.postgresql.Driver</redmineDatabaseDriver>
					<designDir>design</designDir>
				</configuration>
				<dependencies>
					<dependency>
						<groupId>postgresql</groupId>
						<artifactId>postgresql</artifactId>
						<version>9.1-901-1.jdbc4</version>
					</dependency>
				</dependencies>
			</plugin>
			...
		</plugins>
	</build>
	...
</project>
</code></pre>

h3. {maven2_installation_path}/conf/settings.xml

* In this file, should be configured the <pluginGroup> tag with the value br.ufms.nti.
Example:
<pre><code class="xml">
<pluginGroups>
	...
	<pluginGroup>br.ufms.nti</pluginGroup>
	...
</pluginGroups>
</code></pre>

* The redmine database access configurations should be configured in the settings.xml.
	Thus it is possible to store the encrypted passwords.
Example:
<pre><code class="xml">
<servers>
	...
	<server>
		<id>redmine-postgresql</id>
		<username>redmine</username>
		<password>{Kv/Gx43kBVEH8S8TB2LSy3umlM53U8aVaxpWGN/O0Jo=}</password>
	</server>
	...
</servers>
</code></pre>

In case of questions on the procedure to encrypt the database access password using maven, see "Maven Password Encryption":http://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-encryption.html

For more information on how to configure a maven plugin, see "Maven Guide to Configuring Plug-ins":http://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-configuring-plugins.html

h2. DEPENDENCIES

h3. Redmine SCMacros

This plugin makes use of macros that are not recognized by Redmine by default.
Uses the repo_include function of the "scmacros":https://github.com/gpr/redmine_scmacros of Redmine.
This function includes a file from repository (svn, git, etc) in the project wiki.
Example:
<pre>
{{repo_include(design/gpr/index.textile)}}
</pre>

h3. JDBC Driver

Should be specified on pom.xml the jdbc driver of the sgbd used by redmine.
Example:
<pre><code class="xml">
<build>
	...
	<plugins>
		...
		<plugin>
			<groupId>br.ufms.nti</groupId>
			<artifactId>redmine-wiki-publisher</artifactId>
			<configuration>
				<projectIdentifier>${project.artifactId}</projectIdentifier>
				<redmineDatabase>redmine-postgresql</redmineDatabase>
				<redmineDatabaseUrl>jdbc:postgresql://debianvm:5432/redmine</redmineDatabaseUrl>
				<redmineDatabaseDriver>org.postgresql.Driver</redmineDatabaseDriver>
				<designDir>design</designDir>
			</configuration>
			<dependencies>
				<dependency>
					<groupId>postgresql</groupId>
					<artifactId>postgresql</artifactId>
					<version>9.1-901-1.jdbc4</version>
				</dependency>
			</dependencies>
		</plugin>
		...
	</plugins>
	...
</build>
</code></pre>

h2. USAGE

h3. Goals

* publish-wiki
> Publish the project documentation in the Redmine wiki. The plugin will export the contents of the directory configured on <designDir> tag (plugin configuration session in pom.xml), to wiki pages.

h3. How to execute

* publish-redmine-wiki
<pre>
mvn redmine-publisher:publish-wiki
</pre>

